---
title: Phight COVID
date: 2021-12-11 20:40:23 -0400 #date this page is written
role: Data Analyst 
categories: projects 2021 fall #project folder, beginning year and season
tags: All  Data_Analysis 
#tags options: Highlight Event_Planning Entrepreneurship Product_Project_Management Game_Design Marketing Negotiation  Web_Design

start-season: "2021 Fall"
#this is a bad practice
assetLoco: /images/projects/Phight
coverPic: /covid.png
carousel:
  - image: /graph.png
---


On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO)’s declaration of COVID-19 as a pandemic caused widespread panic and alarm across the United States. One of the biggest shocks about the results of the pandemic was that the U.S. fared worse than other countries, “with more than 29 million cases and nearly 530,000 deaths” (Scientific American). As a result, there is an urgent need to understand the mistakes that were made which led to where we are today. This study is referenced on both [Pittsburgh Post Gazette](https://www.post-gazette.com/news/health/2021/12/12/Covid-mask-mandates-Pitt-CMU-research-delta/stories/202112080149) and [NPR](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2021/12/16/1064668750/state-mask-mandates-omicron).

## Research Questions
We explore a variety of research question, each about the effectiveness of mask mandates at the state-level in the United States.

- How varied was mask mandate policy at the state-level?

- How long does it take after a mask mandate intervention to see an impact on COVID cases?

- Does effectiveness of mask mandates vary by season?

- Mask Mandates in the Delta Wave

- Were mask mandates in the Delta Wave effective?

- How does vaccination rate interact with mask mandate effectiveness?


## Full Interactive Report 

[linkt to report](https://www.stat.cmu.edu/capstoneresearch/490files/poster6.html)

<div class="iframe-container"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4pJAN3VpOBE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div><br>

## Main Takeaways 


### 1. Coorelation != Causation 

This may seem very obvious. However, the reality is we only have observational data but we want to draw a causal conclusion. What we end up doing is trying to account for confounding factors. One example is the graph my colleague Jimmy made where he compare the effectiveness of masks between states with similar vaccine rates. Even though we couldn't account for every possible confound factor, we try to address the major and impactful ones. 

### 2. Interactive Graphs is a Saver 

Graphs are good ways to visualize data but if it contains too much information then it becomes overwhelming. Interactive graphs are a balance between the two -- it allows the readers to easily get the gist but also open to inspect individual data points in depth. 

### 3. Data Reports are Subject to Manipulation 

In our research, we try out best to maintain objectivity. However, we can clearly see that it's very easy for the researcher to manipulate the analysis so that they can see the results they want: e.g. using different success criteria, comparator, or calculation methods. In an academic research paper, this may be very apparent, but in a corporate setting where the people only skim the conclusion and the graph, it leaves a lot of room for manipulation. Hence, it's advisable for PMs to understand how the data analysis is conducted to ensure it's not intentionally or accidentally manipulated. 


## Under the Hood 
 
We utilized R with various packages including tidyverse, ggplot2, and plotly. 

