---
title: Earf
date: 2022-08-21 01:40:23 -0400 #date this page is written
role: AR Developer 
categories: projects 2022 Summer  #project folder, beginning year and season
tags: All  AR_VR  Software_Engineer
#tags options: Highlight Event_Planning Entrepreneurship Product_Project_Management Game_Design Marketing Negotiation  Web_Design
description: Generate Gorgeous Planets 
start-season: "2022 Summer"
#this is a bad practice
assetLoco: /images/projects/earf
coverPic: /icon.png
carousel:
  - image: /bg0.png
  - image: /bg1.png
  - image: /bg2.png
---

Enjoying pictures of Earth? Why not try Earf -- the AR Planet Generator!

- Tap on the screen to generate gorgeous planets
- Move your device around to view them up close
- Simulate physics to see planets collide!


To download the full app: [Apple App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/earf-ar-planets/id1641207075)

<div class="iframe-container"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UuTJdkB-cac" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div><br>

## Under the Hood 

This app is made with Unity using AR Foundation. Each terrains is procedurally genearted using multiple layers of perlin noise. A custom shader is made to coloring the planets with random gradients based on the distance of each vertex to the center. It simulations physically (sorta) accurate gravitational force. And also has a random name generator to give your pet planets names!

## How was it made?

{% include image.html img="p1.png" caption="Starting with a blob" size = "small"%}
{% include image.html img="p2.png" caption="Make it round" size = "small"%}
{% include image.html img="p3.png" caption="Sprinkle some perlin noise" size = "small"%}
{% include image.html img="p4.png" caption="Clamp the noise to make ocean surface" size = "small"%}
{% include image.html img="p5.png" caption="Paint the mountains with a shader" size = "small"%}
{% include image.html img="p6.png" caption="Paint the planet with a shader" size = "small"%}
{% include image.html img="p7.png" caption="Paint the ocean depths with a shader" size = "small"%}
{% include image.html img="p8.png" caption="Done!"%}